# How to implement a JavaScript Concept Exercise

This document describes how to implement a Concept Exercise for the JavaScript track.

**Please please please read the docs before starting.** Posting PRs without reading these docs will be a lot more frustrating for you during the review cycle, and exhaust Exercism's maintainers' time. So, before diving into the implementation, please read the following documents:

- [The features of v3][docs-features-of-v3].
- [Rationale for v3][docs-rationale-for-v3].
- [What are concept exercise and how they are structured?][docs-concept-exercises]

Please also watch the following video:

- [The Anatomy of a Concept Exercise][anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise].

As this document is generic, the following placeholders are used:

- `<slug>`: the name of the exercise in snake_case (e.g. `anonymous-methods`).
- `<concepts>`: the Concepts the exercise is about (e.g. `loops`),
- `<concept-1>`: a single Concept slug,
- `<prerequisite-n>`: a single Concept slug,
- `<uuid>`: a _new_ v4 UUID (random!)
- `<first-and-last-name>`: your first and last name (e.g. `Derk-Jan Karrenbeld`)
- `<git-email>`: the email address you use for git (e.g. `derk-jan+github@karrenbeld.info`)

Before implementing the exercise, please make sure you have a good understanding of what the exercise should be teaching (and what not). This information can be found in the exercise's GitHub issue. Having done this, please read the [JavaScript Concept exercises introduction][concept-exercises]. If you have come up with something completely new, create a new issue _first_ so we can discuss the Concept Exercise.

To implement a Concept Exercise, the following files must be added:

<pre>
languages
└── javascript
    ├── concepts
    |   └── &lt;concept-1&gt;
    |       ├── about.md
    |       └── links.json
    └── exercises
        └── concept
            └── &lt;slug&gt;
                ├── .docs
                |   ├── instructions.md
                |   ├── introduction.md
                |   ├── hints.md
                |   └── source.md (required if there are third-party sources)
                ├── .meta
                |   |── config.json
                |   └── design.md
                ├── .eslintrc
                ├── .gitignore
                ├── babel.config.js
                ├── example.js
                ├── &lt;slug&gt;.js
                ├── &lt;slug&gt;.spec.js
                ├── package.json
                └── yarn.lock
</pre>

## Step 1: Add code files

The configuration files may be copied from another exercise. We aim to keep these in sync:

- `.eslintrc`
- `.gitignore`
- `babel.config.js`
- `package.json`
- `yarn.lock`

The `package.json` file must be edited:

```diff
-  "name": "@exercism/javascript-numbers",
+  "name": "@exercism/javascript-<slug>",
-  "description": "Exercism Concept Exercise on <concepts>",
-  "author": "Derk-Jan Karrenbeld <derk-jan+github@karrenbeld.info>",
+  "author": "<first-and-last-name> <<git-email>>"
   "version": "1.0.0",
   "license": "MIT",
   "private": true,
   "repository": {
     "type": "git",
     "url": "https://github.com/exercism/language-concepts.git",
-    "directory": "languages/javascript/exercises/concept/numbers"
+    "directory": "languages/javascript/exercises/concept/<slug>"
   },
```

Now create the following three files:

- `<slug>.cs`. the stub implementation file, which is the starting point for students to work on the exercise.
- `<slug>.spec.js`: the test suite.
- `example.js`: an example implementation that passes all the tests.

## Step 2: Add documentation files

How to create the files common to all tracks is described in the [how to implement a concept exercise document][how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise].

## Step 3: Add analyzer (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an exercise-specific [analyzer][analyzer]. If so, specify what analysis rules should be applied to this exercise and why.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Step 4: Add representation (optional)

Some exercises could benefit from having an custom representation as generated by the [JavaScript representer][representer]. If so, specify what changes to the representation should be applied and why.

_Skip this step if you're not sure what to do._

## Inspiration

When implementing an exercise, it can be very useful to look at already implemented JavaScript exercises like the [strings][concept-exercise-strings], [numbers][concept-exercise-numbers] or [promises][concept-exercise-promises] exercises. You can also check the exercise's [general concepts documents][reference] to see if other languages have already implemented an exercise for that Concept.

## Help

If you have any questions regarding implementing the exercise, please post them as comments in the exercise's GitHub issue.

[analyzer]: https://github.com/exercism/javascript-analyzer
[representer]: https://github.com/exercism/javascript-representer
[concept-exercises]: ../exercises/concept/README.md
[how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise]: ../../../docs/maintainers/generic-how-to-implement-a-concept-exercise.md
[docs-concept-exercises]: ../../../docs/concept-exercises.md
[docs-rationale-for-v3]: ../../../docs/rationale-for-v3.md
[docs-features-of-v3]: ../../../docs/features-of-v3.md
[anatomy-of-a-concept-exercise]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkbBqd7hPrA
[concept-exercise-strings]: ../exercises/concept/strings
[concept-exercise-numbers]: ../exercises/concept/numbers
[concept-exercise-promises]: ../exercises/concept/promises
[reference]: ../../../reference/README.md
